# chromaticwhale

Twitter bot for bogus travel reports. The bot is currently tweeting to [@chromaticwhale](http://twitter.com/chromaticwhale).

There are two stages to the process.

1. Production of a [Tracery](https://github.com/galaxykate/tracery)
grammar.
2. Generation of reports using the grammar.

## Grammar Generation

The grammar includes several lists of terminals. These are pulled from
dbpedia via the SPARQL endpoint. Current items of interest include
Northern Rail stations and lines, European rodents, weather
conditions and Japanese monsters. 

## Report Generation

The grammar is then used to generate short reports using via
[pytracery](https://github.com/aparrish/pytracery). These are then
tweeted using the
[python-twitter](https://github.com/bear/python-twitter) API. 


## Hosting

Hosting was initially via [cheapbotsdonequick](http://cheapbotsdonequick.com/),
a really easy to use service that just takes a tracery grammar and
will post to a given twitter account.

The bot is now hosted on a free [heroku](http://heroku.com) account
using bespoke code. This gives some more control over timing of
updates (using a heroku scheduler) and also opens up the possibility
of some more sophisticated tweet generation. As a down side, the
grammar is now under git control to make things easier at the heroku
end which isn't ideal in version control terms as it's actually being
generated by the python code.

## Tweeting

The pythonscript `tweetbot.py` will generate a tweet from a grammar
and attempt to tweet it. Arguments are:

```
	-c --config <config>
		Configuration file (see below)
	-n --notweet
		Generate and report only, do not actually post a status
		update.
	-u --noauth
	    Don't attempt to authenticate (Implies no tweeting)
	-x --override
	    Override randomness, i.e. always generate a tweet
	-t --tweets <n>
	    Produce n tweets
```
		
The configuration file is a json file that contains information about
the grammar to be used, the production rule to use, and the freqency
of updates. As an example, the
[@chromaticwhale](http://twitter.com/chromaticwhale) account
configuration is:

```
{
  "grammar": "grammar/whale.json",
  "production": "origin",
  "frequency": 3
}
```

Note that this assumes that the script is run from the top level
directory, e.g.

```
python python/tweetbot.py --config config.json
```

On occasion, generated tweets may be larger than 140 characters. The
tweetbot will regenerate (up to 10 times) until a tweet of the right
length is obtained. If, after 10 attempts, a tweet of the correct size
has not been generated, the script reports this and finishes. If the
grammar is changed, this may need revisiting.

Otherwise, the frequency value is used to dictate whether or not the
bot will tweet on that cycle. A random number is generated between `0`
and `frequency-1`. If that number is `0`, then a tweet is issued. If
the value is non zero, then no tweet is generated. Thus a frequency
value of 1 guarantees that a tweet will be issued. A heroku scheduler
allows for intervals of 10 minutes, hourly or daily, so the frequency
mechanism gives us a certain element of randomness, and some
flexibility of the periodicity of tweets. The
[@chromaticwhale](http://twitter.com/chromaticwhale) scheduler fires
up every hour, so on average, will actually tweet every three hours.

Authentication to twitter is controlled via four variables: `API_KEY`,
`API_SECRET`, `ACCESS_TOKEN`, `ACCESS_SECRET`. For obvious reasons,
these are not held in the repository, but should be set as environment
variables, either locally or via the heroku app.

If the bot has decided to tweet, then the credentials are used to
establish an api connection. The account name is then reported. If the
`--notweet` argument is not present, a status update is then made. 
